Create(R_lang-Vectors): added documentation for R lang vectors (#1049)
Codecademy/docs: content/r/concepts/vectors/vectors.md

---
Title: 'Vectors'
Description: 'Vectors are used to store and use multiple data values of the same type.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Vectors'
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Integers'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-r'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Vectors are used to store and use multiple data values of the same type that can be accessed later by subsequent code. In R, the indexing of the vectors will start from ‘1’ and not from ‘0’ unlike the other programming languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vectors are used to store and use multiple data values of the same type that can be accessed later by subsequent code. In R, the indexing of vectors will start from ‘1’ and not from ‘0’ unlike other programming languages.
```

## Creating a Vector

In R, vectors are created or initialised using the ‘c’ function which means combining different elements together.

> Vectors can be of different datatypes.

Reviewer: This should be rephrased to avoid confusion. As is, it may be read that a single vector can contain multiple datatypes.

Reviewer: This still needs to be addressed.

```r
# This creates a vector of names (character vector)
names <- c('Adam','John','Walter')
```

```r
# This creates a vector of integers
marks <- c(90,87,100,79,91)
```

Apart from the 'c' function semicolon(:) can also be used to create a vector containing numbers in a range.

```r

> # This vector numbers contains all the numbers between 1 and 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This vector contains all the numbers between 1 and 10
```

numbers <- 1:10
numbers # output [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

> In R, Character vectors contain alphanumeric values and special characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In R, character vectors can contain alphanumeric values and special characters.
```

```r

> # This vector contains both alphabets and numerics and type of the vector would be character vector type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and type of the vector would be character vector type
```

> # This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and type of the vector would be character vector type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and would be a character vector type
```

alphanumerics <- c('water','fire','ice',90)
alphanumerics # output ['water','fire','ice','90']
```

## Accessing an element in a Vector

> There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each elements. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the Subscript operator [].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each elements. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].
```

> There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each elements. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each element. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].
```

```r
# accessing elements with an index number as subscript.
numbers <- c(65,49,55,36,126)
numbers[2] # output 49
number[4] # output 36
```

Vector elements can also be accessed by logical indexing

```r
# accessing vector elements using logical indexing
numbers <- c(1,2,3,4,5)
numbers[numbers<2] #output 1
```

## Updating a vector

A vector element can be updated just by replacing the value using the subscript operator [] by specifying the index.

```r
numbers <- c(2,5,1,7,9)
numbers[3] = 8
numbers # output [2,5,8,7,9] third element is updated to 8
numbers[1] = 0
numbers # output [0,5,8,7,9] first element is updated to 0
```

## Vector Recycling

> Vector Recycling is a process in which two vectors are involved in an operation, that operation needs the vectors to be of same length but the two vectors are of different length, in those cases, R repeats the elements of shorter vector to match the length of longer vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector Recycling is a process in which two vectors are involved in an operation where the operation needs the vectors to be of same length and the two vectors are of different length. In those cases, R repeats the elements of shorter vector to match the length of longer vector.
```

> Vector Recycling is a process in which two vectors are involved in an operation where the operation needs the vectors to be of same length and the two vectors are of different length. In those cases, R repeats the elements of shorter vector to match the length of longer vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector recycling is a process in which two vectors are involved in an operation where the operation needs the vectors to be of same length and the two vectors are of different length. In those cases, R repeats the elements of shorter vector to match the length of longer vector.
```

> Example for Vector Recycling using Addition Operation :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example for Vector Recycling using addition:
```

> Example for Vector Recycling using addition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example for vector recycling using addition:
```

> Vector Addition requires the two vectors to be of same length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector addition requires the two vectors to be of same length.
```

Case 1: When the two vector lengths are equal.

```r
numbers1 <- c(1,2,3,4,5)
numbers2 <- c(3,4,5,6,7)
sum <- numbers1 + numbers2 # output [4,6,8,10,12]
```

Case 2: When the vector lengths are not the same.

```r
numbers1 <- c(1,2,3,4,5,6)
numbers2 <- c(3,4)
sum <- numbers1 + numbers2 # output [4,6,6,8,8,10]

> # here 1 is added with 3 and then 2 is added with 4 now numbers2 vector end is reached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Here 1 is added with 3 and then 2 is added with 4. Now numbers2 vector end is reached.
```

> # Now to complete the addition operation R repeats the smaller vector till the larger vector end is reached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Now to complete the addition operation R repeats the smaller vector till the larger vector end is reached.
```

> # Therefore, 3 is added with 3 and 4 is added with 4 then 5 is added with 3 and 6 is added with 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Therefore, 3 is added with 3 and 4 is added with 4 then 5 is added with 3 and 6 is added with 4.
```

> # This process is called as Vector Recycling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This process is called as vector recycling
```

---
Title: 'Vectors'

> Description: 'Vectors are used to store and use multiple data values of the same type.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Vectors are used to store multiple values of the same data type.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Vectors'
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Integers'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-r'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

Vectors are used to store and use multiple data values of the same type that can be accessed later by subsequent code. In R, the indexing of vectors will start from ‘1’ and not from ‘0’ unlike other programming languages.

## Creating a Vector

> In R, vectors are created or initialised using the ‘c’ function which means combining different elements of the same type together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In R, vectors are made with the ‘c()’ function to combine different elements of the same type together.
```

## Vector Types

Vectors can be of different datatypes.

```r
# This creates a vector of names (character vector)
names <- c('Adam','John','Walter')
```

```r
# This creates a vector of integers
marks <- c(90,87,100,79,91)
```

> Apart from the 'c' function semicolon(:) can also be used to create a vector containing numbers in a range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apart from the 'c()' function, the semicolon (`:`) can be used to create a vector containing a range of numbers:
```

```r
# This vector contains all the numbers between 1 and 10
numbers <- 1:10
numbers # output [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

In R, character vectors can contain alphanumeric values and special characters.

```r
# This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and would be a character vector type
alphanumerics <- c('water','fire','ice',90)

> alphanumerics # output ['water','fire','ice','90']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alphanumerics # Output: ['water','fire','ice','90']
```

```

## Accessing an element in a Vector

There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each element. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].

```r
# accessing elements with an index number as subscript.
numbers <- c(65,49,55,36,126)
numbers[2] # output 49
number[4] # output 36
```

Vector elements can also be accessed by logical indexing

```r
# accessing vector elements using logical indexing
numbers <- c(1,2,3,4,5)
numbers[numbers<2] #output 1
```

## Updating a vector

A vector element can be updated just by replacing the value using the subscript operator [] by specifying the index.

```r
numbers <- c(2,5,1,7,9)
numbers[3] = 8
numbers # output [2,5,8,7,9] third element is updated to 8
numbers[1] = 0
numbers # output [0,5,8,7,9] first element is updated to 0
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This suggestion still needs resolved. Also, I would add a new \```shell snippet below this text with the output:

```shell
Original vector:  2 5 1 7 9 
Third element changed:  2 5 8 7 9 
First element changed:  0 5 8 7 9
```

---
Title: 'Vectors'
Description: 'Vectors are used to store multiple values of the same data type.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Vectors'
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Integers'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-r'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Vectors** are used to store multiple values of the same [data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/r/data-types) for later use. Unlike other programming languages, vectors in R are not zero-indexed; they start from 1.

## Creating a Vector

In R, vectors are made with the ‘c()’ function to combine different elements of the same type together.

## Vector Types

Vectors can be of different datatypes.

```r

> # This creates a vector of names (character vector)
> names <- c('Adam','John','Walter')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Character vector
names <- c('Adam', 'John', 'Walter')

# Integer vector
marks <- c(90, 87, 100, 79, 91)

# Logical vector
booleans <- c(TRUE, FALSE, TRUE)
```

```

```r
# This creates a vector of integers
marks <- c(90,87,100,79,91)
```

Apart from the 'c()' function, the semicolon (`:`) can be used to create a vector containing a range of numbers:

```r
# This vector contains all the numbers between 1 and 10
numbers <- 1:10
numbers # output [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

In R, character vectors can contain alphanumeric values and special characters.

```r
# This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and would be a character vector type
alphanumerics <- c('water','fire','ice',90)
alphanumerics # Output: ['water','fire','ice','90']
```

## Accessing Vector Elements

There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each element. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].

```r
# Accessing elements with an index number as subscript.
numbers <- c(65,49,55,36,126)
numbers[2] # Output: 49
number[4] # Output: 36
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The output would look like this:

```

And then let's add a new \```shell snippet for the output, like so:

```shell
[1] 49
[1] 36
```

Vector elements can also be accessed by logical indexing

```r
# Accessing vector elements using logical indexing.

> numbers <- c(1,2,3,4,5)
> numbers[numbers<2]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
numbers <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
numbers[numbers < 4]
```

> # Output: 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Output: [1] 1 2 3
```

```

## Updating a Vector

> A vector element can be updated just by replacing the value using the subscript operator [] by specifying the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vector elements can be updated by specifying the index with the subscript operator (`[]`) and replacing with the new value:
```

```r

> numbers <- c(2,5,1,7,9)
> 
> numbers[3] = 8
> numbers # Output: [2,5,8,7,9]
> numbers[1] = 0
> numbers # Output: [0,5,8,7,9]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
numbers <- c(2, 5, 1, 7, 9)

cat("Original vector: ", numbers, "\n")

numbers[3] = 8
cat("Third element changed: ", numbers, "\n")

numbers[1] = 0
cat("First element changed: ", numbers)
```

```
To start, the third element in `numbers` is updated to 8. Next, the first element is updated to 0.

## Vector Recycling

> Vector recycling is a process in which two vectors are involved in an operation where the operation needs the vectors to be of same length and the two vectors are of different length. In those cases, R repeats the elements of shorter vector to match the length of longer vector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vector recycling is a process in which two vectors of different lengths are operated upon such that the elements of the shorter vector are repeated to match the length of the longer vector.
```

> Example for vector recycling using addition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example

The following example presents two cases of vector recycling using addition, which requires the two vectors to be equal in length.
```

> Vector addition requires the two vectors to be of same length.
> 
> Case 1: When the two vector lengths are equal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Case 1: When the two vector lengths are equal:
```

```r

> numbers1 <- c(1,2,3,4,5)
> numbers2 <- c(3,4,5,6,7)
> sum <- numbers1 + numbers2
> # Output: [4,6,8,10,12]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
numbers_1 <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
numbers_2 <- c(3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
sum <- numbers_1 + numbers_2
sum
# Output: [1] 4 6 8 10 12
```

```

> Case 2: When the vector lengths are not the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Case 2: When the vector lengths are unequal:
```

```r

> numbers1 <- c(1,2,3,4,5,6)
> numbers2 <- c(3,4)
> sum <- numbers1 + numbers2 
> # Output [4,6,6,8,8,10]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
numbers_1 <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)
numbers_2 <- c(3, 4)
sum <- numbers_1 + numbers_2
sum
# Output: [1] 4 6 6 8 8 10
```

```

> Here 1 is added with 3 and then 2 is added with 4. Now numbers2 vector end is reached.
> 
> Now to complete the addition operation R repeats the smaller vector till the larger vector end is reached.
> 
> Therefore, 3 is added with 3 and 4 is added with 4 then 5 is added with 3 and 6 is added with 4.4
> This process is called as vector recycling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Here, the first two elements of `numbers_1` are added to the first, and only, two elements of `numbers_2`. Then, to complete the addition operation, R repeats (or recycles) the elements of the smaller `numbers_2` vector (`3` and `4`) until the end of `numbers_1` is reached.
```

Let's always make sure to leave an empty line above and below code blocks and headers. 😄

```
atomic_vector <- c(element_1, element_2, ... element_N)
```

## Vector Types

Vectors can be of different datatypes.

Recursive vectors can have elements of any data type and is created with the `list()` function:  

## Examples
The following atomic vectors are created with the `c()` function:

```r
# Character vector
names <- c('Adam', 'John', 'Walter')
# Integer vector
marks <- c(90, 87, 100, 79, 91)
# Logical vector
booleans <- c(TRUE, FALSE, TRUE)
```

```r
# This creates a vector of integers
marks <- c(90,87,100,79,91)
```

Apart from the 'c()' function, the colon operator (`:`) can be used to create a vector containing a range of numbers:

```r
# This vector contains all the numbers between 1 and 10
numbers <- 1:10
numbers
# Output: [1] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
```

In R, character vectors can contain alphanumeric values and special characters.

```r
# This vector contains both alphabetic and numeric values, and would be a character vector type
alphanumerics <- c('water', 'fire', 'ice', 90)
alphanumerics
# Output: [1] "water" "fire" "ice" "90"
```

## Accessing Vector Elements

> There is need to access the elements in vector to perform operations on each element. The most common way to access the vector elements is by using the subscript operator [].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common way to access vector elements is by using the subscript operator `[]`:
```

```r
# Accessing elements with an index number as subscript.

numbers <- c(65, 49, 55, 36, 126)
numbers[2]
numbers[4]

> 

Reviewer 2: Add three backticks ``` here.

The output would look like this:

# Output: [1] 49
# Output: [1] 36

```
Vector elements can also be accessed by logical indexing

```r
# Accessing vector elements using logical indexing.
numbers <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
numbers[numbers < 4]
# Output: [1] 1 2 3
```

## Updating a Vector

Vector elements can be updated by specifying the index with the subscript operator (`[]`) and replacing with the new value:

```r
numbers <- c(2, 5, 1, 7, 9)
cat("Original vector: ", numbers, "\n")
numbers[3] = 8
cat("Third element changed: ", numbers, "\n")
numbers[1] = 0
cat("First element changed: ", numbers)
```
To start, the third element in `numbers` is updated to 8. Next, the first element is updated to 0.

## Vector Recycling

Vector recycling is a process in which two vectors of different lengths are operated upon such that the elements of the shorter vector are repeated to match the length of the longer vector.

### Example

> The following example presents two cases of vector recycling using addition, which requires the two vectors to be equal in length.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following example presents two cases of vector recycling using addition, which requires the two vectors to be equal in length.
```

> 
> Vector addition requires the two vectors to be of same length.
> 
> Case 1: When the two vector lengths are equal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Case 1: When the two vector lengths are equal:
```

```r
numbers_1 <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
numbers_2 <- c(3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
sum <- numbers_1 + numbers_2
sum
# Output: [1] 4 6 8 10 12
```

Case 2: When the vector lengths are unequal:

```r
numbers_1 <- c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)
numbers_2 <- c(3, 4)
sum <- numbers_1 + numbers_2
sum
# Output: [1] 4 6 6 8 8 10
```

> Here, the first two elements of `numbers_1` are added to the first, and only, two elements of `numbers_2`. Then, to complete the addition operation, R repeats (or recycles) the elements of the smaller `numbers_2` vector (`3` and `4`) until the end of `numbers_1` is reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Here, the first two elements of `numbers_1` are added to the first, and only, two elements of `numbers_2`. Then, to complete the addition operation, R repeats (or recycles) the elements of the smaller `numbers_2` vector (`3` and `4`) until the end of `numbers_1` is reached.
```
